  Modern AROS bootstraps support modular kickstart. This means that the
kickstart doesn't have to be a monolythic image and can be built on the
fly from separate modules.

  In order to simplify life for both developers and users, the distribution
kickstart is broken down into several packages. A package is a collection
of modules, which can come either in ELF or PKG format.

  PKG format is currently not supported by all bootstraps, however it's
the preferred way because PKG kickstart contains correct module names
(for crash backtrace), and also helps to prevent 'multiple definition'
problems which sometimes appear while linking a ELF kickstart.

  Currently the following standard packages are defined:

1. BASE.

  Base package contains machine-independent modules. This package is
designed to be fully portable and independent of its enviromnemt. The
same base package can run on both hosted and native AROS. There's no
functional difference between ELF and PKG forms.

  Currently base package includes the following modules:

 console.device
 input.device
 gameport.device
 keyboard.device
 amberram-handler
 con-handler
 hiddclass.hidd
 graphics.hidd
 keyboard.hidd
 mouse.hidd
 aros.library
 debug.library
 dos.library
 graphics.library
 intuition.library
 keymap.library
 layers.library
 oop.library
 utility.library
 bootloader.resource
 dosboot.resource
 FileSystem.resource
 lddemon.resource

  These modules are not allowed to have machine-specific code because it
violates portability convention. As of 12.09.2011, m68k-amiga
(chipset-specific code in graphics.library) and PowerPC-native (display
driver setup kludge in dos.library boot code) ports do not conform to this rule.

  Of course "machine-specific code" does not include "cpu-specific code".
It's allowed for any module to have relevant portions in arch/<cpu>-all.

  This package is described in rom/mmakefile.src.

2. FS

  This package contains resident filesystems and partition.library needed
to boot up native AROS. These components are left out if base for
optimization purposes, because hosted AROS boots up from emul-handler.

  For hosted flavours disk-based version of these components are built by
default (arch/all-hosted/mmakefile). However this package also doesn't
contain any machine specific code and can run on all ports. This package
can also be used on hosted, for deeper testing and simulation purposes.

  Described in arch/all-native/mmakefile.src.

3. Poseidon.

  Contains resident portion of Poseidon USB stack (poseidon.library,
pciusb.device and several classes). Needed to boot up from USB devices
and use USB keyboard and mice at boot time on native AROS. Does not
ontain any other hardware-specific code than PCI device driver.

  Decribed in rom/usb/mmakefile.src.

4. BSP (Board Support Package)
 
  This term originates from eCos embedded operating systems and covers all
lowlevel hardware-specific code which actually makes the machine to run.

  For AROS this means kernel and basic hardware drivers. Contents of this
package varies from port to port, and this is the only package which is
not portable.

  A minimal BSP contains:

 kernel.resource
 battclock.resource
 processor.resource
 exec.library
 expansion.library
 timer.device
 bootable storage device drivers (ata.device, trackdisk.device)
 basic input device drivers (keyboard, mouse)
 at least one basic display driver
