Summary: GettingMoreHelp
------------------------

This is a summary of the GettingMoreHelp discussion on aros-dev
from january 2002. It covers ome pints and ideas of what
must to do next and how should this be done.


This summary contains comments from:

    Björn Hagström <orgin@home.se>
    Adam Chodorowski <adam.chodorowski@home.se>
    Paul Huxham <paulhuxham@yahoo.com>
    Henrik Berglund SdU <adb94hbd@mds.mdh.se>
    Peter Eriksson <petah@acc.umu.se>
    Johan Alfredsson <d95duvan@dtek.chalmers.se>


How motivate people to write for AROS?
-----------------------------------------

- People thinking that all areas are covered by someone.
- So they have the impression that things are being handled fine 
  and no help is necessary.
- This is probably the reason why they do not offering their
  time for AROS.
  
- At the moment there are any informations on the AROS website
  about what YOU can do for AROS.
- List a free jobs in CVS at docs/src/jobs.dat 
- Solution: Create direct requests about things which could be
  done for AROS and spread them.   

I was just sitting at work today thinking about AROS and its
current developement. 

Currently there's rather a few active
developers involved and I see people wanting help with their
part in AROS just about every time I visit #Aros. I came
to wonder why there are so few helping out. In my opinion
that's mainly because most people that know of AROS thinks
that things are going very smooth, with all areas covered
by someone already involved and that things are being handled
just fine. Atleast that's the picture that most public
statements from us would (and does imho) give. 

In such a
light people might not think twice about offering their
time. I brough the matter up in #AROS and people agreed
with me, and we though that something should be done. So
my suggestion is that a more direct request for help is
made, describing in what areas we need help and what those
areas are. I would be happy to assemble such a request and
then we (including myself :) can post it on popular forums,
like ann, comp.sys.amiga.*, moobunny, chech amiga news and
whatnot.

I would basically write a message saying "Want to help?
This is what we need: 1,2,3 and this is what would help
is you were experienced in: a,b,c"



Request
------------
- In what areas help is needed?
- What experience might be needed?
- Description of what the different areas (meaning of areas).

To sum up, the request should include in what areas help
is needed, what experience might be needed and a description
of what the different areas would mean. Just stating "bus.hidd"
would not interest anyone unless it is specified what it means.



Request list
---------------

I made a quick list of the different areas that might come
up. I don't have the knowledge about what they would mean, or
what experience would be needed, but that's what I would want
you guys on the list to help me with before I send something
out to the public.

I think it is important that such tasks (that we can get "outside" help
with) is quite small and independent. For instance, sending out a message
asking for help with

    1) TCP/IP stack
    2) bus.hidd
    3) New workbench

won't get anyone helping at all (my guess at least). These tasks are
either too big or you really need special expertise. Rather, I think it
would be better to focus on small things, although leaving in _some_
bigger things might be good also.

    Examples:

       Preferences programs
       Datatypes
       Icon.library enhancements
       BOOPSI itexticlass


Yes, its a good idea to start with smaller request. So the people
could estimate how much time they will need and the chance that
they could finish their work is bigger.

Its propably better to start with stuff known by amiga developers
than with things which are special for AROS like the HIDD system.

If the first type of requests works (and AROS has better docs for 
building, oop-lib, hidd, porting) then the requests could be 
become bigger and more AROS specific.

 
 "There's still a lot of work to do for AROS. So AROS can need your
  help! 

  [description of the AROS project and the goal]

  At the moment you can i.e. write the missing preference applications:

    - ...
    - ...

  These should be implemented using bgui and?or gaddtools.library and
  the iffparse.library in plain ANSI-C. All these libraries are working 
  on AROS. The developement is done in ANSI-C (instead of C++)
  to make it easier to port AROS to different systems (the AROS
  project started 7 years ago).

  So you need knowledge about the AmigaOS, the preference you want
  to implement, the bgui- or gadtools- and iffparse-libraries and
  about plain ANSI-C to write preference applications for AROS.
  
  Some preference are implemented so you can use the existing sources
  to start writing a missing prefs. You will also getting help from
  the people of the aros-dev mailinglist.

  For developing its recommended to use a Linux/x86 system. Because
  AROS is portable its also possible to do developement on ...
  but at the moment the linux branch is the easiest to handle.

  You need on this system:
     - gcc 2.9x+ (2.96 from redhat does not work)
     - make, autoconf, automake,...
     - CVS

  In the FAQ on www.aros.org you can find a few informations about
  the AROS project and the developement for AROS. 

  Please write to ... if you are interested in doing some work
  for AROS or if you have any questions and suggestions. You
  could also join the aros user mailinglist: see ...
 
  contact:

  [maybe its good to describe also the idea and the intention of this request]
  " 
  
  
List
----------------
 - Implementing missing library functions (see docs/src/jobs.dat)

 - HIDD's of different kinds, NET.HIDD, BUS.HIDD, PCI.HIDD etc etc.
 - Specific drivers for gfx-cards, VESA support
 - Audio implementation 

 - TCP/IP stack

 - Datatypes
 - Printer support
 - translator.library (sources can be downloaded from aminet)
 
 - A functional workbench
 - Prefs programs

 - Coordinating gui design for AROS programs, such as prefs program,
   tools and utilities.
 - Porting MUI

 - Text editors, vim, emacs ..
 - Port of GCC and the whole development tool chain (gcc, make,
   binutils...)

 - Improving the C linklib (porting ixemul from geekgagdets.org)

   Implementing missing ANSI (and some POSIX) functions in the clib, to make 
   it easier to port GNU software (eg. GCC, make and binutils). 
  
   The most biggest  thing missing is support for POSIX style signaling, 
   but there's probably a lot of other functions too.
  

 - Porting to more hardware platforms

   A first step might be to make a hosted flavour for an OS on the intended 
   platform, of which some *NIX flavor is probably easiest (since most *NIX 
   code is the same for different operating systems).
 
   Some ideas for possible ports which AFAIK haven't been started yet:
   + Amiga 
   + Atari ;-)
   + HP 300 series (m68k based)
   + SUN Sparc
   + iPaq
   + ...

 - Improving existing native ports

  As always, more drivers. Just some examples AFAIK nobody is working on:
 
  - AROS/palm-native:
    o Graphics
    o Input (touchscreen, buttons)
    o Sound
 
  - AROS/i386-native:
    o Specific graphic card drivers (we only have general, not very well
      accelerated ones). A short wishlist:
      + nVidia TNT/TNT2/GeForce
      + S3 Virge
      + Matrox Millenium
    o USB
    o SCSI
    o Specific IDE chipsets (eg. Promise UltraATA)
    o ...a lot more.


Porting MUI
-------------------
- Problem MUI is closed source, commercial software
- Convince Stefan Stuntz to release the source 
- Convince Stefan Stuntz to release a binary for AROS
- Reimplement MUI starting with Zune (GPLed MUI clone for X11)
   Flavio Stanchina
   http://spazioweb.inwind.it/fstanchina/ 
   flavio.stanchina@tin.it
