
What are the different files ?



addclass.c - Function to add a class to the OOP-system. Ie. make the class public.

disposeobject.c - Function to delete an object from storagem when it is
		 no longer needed.

getattr.c - Function to get one attribute from an object.

getattrbase.c - get the attribute ID base for an interface.
		The attrbase must allready have between by ObtainAttrBase().
		
getmethod.c - get a function pointer to a specific method.

getmethodid.c - get a numeric methodid, for a method in a certain interface
		represented by a string and an index.
		
hash.c - generic hash-table implementation used inside the system.
hash.h - hash table API.

hiddmetaclass.c - Metaclass implementing single inheritance.
metaclass.c - Metaclass implementing multiple interfaces.
newobject.c - Function for instantiating an object/class (classes are also objects).
obtainattrbase.c - Function for obtaining an Attribute ID base for an interface
obtainattrbases.c - Function for obtaining several Attribute ID bases
		    for interfaces.
		    
parseattrs.c - Optimized taglist parsing function.

private.h - Declares methods that are private to the oop implementation,
 	    ie. they are only used in the implementation itself.


privatestubs.c - stubs for private methods, ie. methods that are only
used in the oop implementation itself.

releaseattrbase.c - Function for releasing an attribute ID base obtained
		earlier with ObtainAttrBase();
		
releaseattrbases.c - Function for releasing a set of attribute ID bases obtained
		earlier with ObtainAttrBases();


removeclass.c - Remove a class from the public class list. The class must
		have been added earlier with AddClass();

rootclass.c - The root class which is root of all other classes
              (including metaclasses),
	      and the basemetaclass, which is root of all
	      metaclasses.
	      
setattrs.c - Function to set an attribute in an object.
support.c - Various support functions needed for
             handling dynamic allocation of IDs.


